Rewrote introduction (#37)
tlsnotary/docs-mdbook: src/intro.md

Enter TLSNotary: a protocol enabling users to export data securely from any website. Using Zero Knowledge Proof (ZKP) technology, this data can be selectively shared with others in a cryptographically verifiable manner.

> TLSNotary makes data truly portable and allows a user, the `Prover`, to share it with another user, the `Verifier`, as they see fit.

Author: yup would agree

## How Does the TLSNotary Protocol Work?

The TLSNotary protocol consists of 3 steps:

> 1. The `Prover` **requests** the data from the `Server`. The `Verifier` participates with secure and privacy-preserving *multi party computation (MPC)*.

Author: agree

2. The `Prover` **selectively discloses** the data to the `Verifier`.
3. The `Verifier` **verifies** the data.

![](./png-diagrams/overview4.png)

### ① Multi-party TLS Request

> TLSNotary works by including the `Verifier` in the usual TLS communication between the `Prover` and a `Server`. This `Verifier` is **not "[a man in the middle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man-in-the-middle_attack)"**. Instead, the `Verifier` participates in a **secure multi-party computation** (MPC) to jointly operate the TLS connection without seeing the data in plain text. By participating in the MPC, the `Verifier` can validate the authenticity and integrity of the data the `Prover` received from the `Server`.

Author: I am neutral here

The TLSNotary protocol is transparent to the `Server`. From the `Server`'s perspective, the `Prover`'s connection is a standard TLS connection.

### ② Selective Disclosure

> The TLSNotary protocol allows the `Prover` to selectively prove the authenticity of arbitrary parts of the data to the `Verifier`. In this **selective disclosure** phase, the `Prover` can **redact sections** from the plain text, thereby removing sensitive data. Next, the `Prover` sends the redacted data to the `Verifier`.

Author: Agree, the new one reads better. But is there a good reason to have this asymmetry of `the Prover` but `a Verifier`?

> The TLSNotary protocol allows the `Prover` to selectively prove the authenticity of arbitrary parts of the data to the `Verifier`. In this **selective disclosure** phase, the `Prover` can **redact sections** from the plain text, thereby removing sensitive data. Next, the `Prover` sends the redacted data to the `Verifier`.

Reviewer: We have used this same style in previous paragraphs too.

This capability can be paired with Zero-Knowledge Proofs to prove properties of the redacted data without revealing the data itself.

### ③ Data Verification

The `Verifier` now validates the proof received from the `Prover`. The data origin can be verified by inspecting the `Server` certificate through trusted certificate authorities (CAs). The `Verifier` can now make assertions about the non-redacted content of the transcript.

> ## TLS verification with a general-purpose Notary

Author: I feel like the longer heading gives more context information, like: "Look this is a special case of setup"

> ## TLS verification with a general-purpose Notary

Reviewer: I agree with th4s here

Since the validation of the TLS traffic does neither reveal anything about the plain text of the TLS session, nor about the `Server`, it is possible to outsource the MPC TLS verification to a general-purpose TLS verifier ①, which we call a `Notary`. This `Notary` can sign, or *notarize* ②, the data and thus make it portable. The `Prover` can now take this signed transcript, and selectively disclose ③ sections to an application-specific verifier which verifies the data ④.

![](./png-diagrams/overview3.png)

> In this setting the original `Verifier` has been split into a TLS verifier, the `Notary`, and an application-specific `Verifier` for the disclosure part. The `Notary` can now engage in MPC for the notarization of data for several different applications. In this case the `Notary` cryptographically signs the data from the Server. Next, the `Prover` can selectively disclose the data to a application specific `Verifier`. Note that this setup comes with the trust assumption for the `Verifier` that the `Notary` did not collude with the `Prover`.

Reviewer: OK. rewritten

Enter TLSNotary: a protocol enabling users to export data securely from any website. Using Zero Knowledge Proof (ZKP) technology, this data can be selectively shared with others in a cryptographically verifiable manner.

TLSNotary makes data truly portable and allows a user, the `Prover`, to share it with another party, the `Verifier`, as they see fit.

## How Does the TLSNotary Protocol Work?

The TLSNotary protocol consists of 3 steps:

> 1. The `Prover` **requests** data from a `Server`. The `Verifier` participates with secure and privacy-preserving *multi party computation (MPC)*.

Reviewer 2: I would prefer this step to be one sentence, e.g.
"The Prover requests data from a Server while participating in secure and privacy-preserving *multi-party computation (MPC) with the Verifier"

2. The `Prover` **selectively discloses** the data to the `Verifier`.
3. The `Verifier` **verifies** the data.

![](./png-diagrams/overview4.png)

### ① Multi-party TLS Request

> TLSNotary works by adding a third party, a `Verifier`, to the usual TLS connection between the `Prover` and a `Server`. This `Verifier` is **not "[a man in the middle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man-in-the-middle_attack)"**. Instead, the `Verifier` participates in a **secure multi-party computation** (MPC) to jointly operate the TLS connection without seeing the data in plain text. By participating in the MPC, the `Verifier` can validate the authenticity and integrity of the data the `Prover` received from the `Server`.

Reviewer 2: The answer here https://security.stackexchange.com/questions/93322/difference-between-authentication-integrity-and-data-origin-authentication
explains that TLS data authenticity automatically implies "integrity", so we can drop integrity, imo

The TLSNotary protocol is transparent to the `Server`. From the `Server`'s perspective, the `Prover`'s connection is a standard TLS connection.

### ② Selective Disclosure

> The TLSNotary protocol allows the `Prover` to selectively prove the authenticity of arbitrary parts of the data to a `Verifier`. In this **selective disclosure** phase, the `Prover` can **redact** sensitive information from the data prior to sharing it with the `Verifier`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The TLSNotary protocol enables the `Prover` to selectively prove the authenticity of arbitrary parts of the data to a `Verifier`. In this **selective disclosure** phase, the `Prover` can **redact** sensitive information from the data prior to sharing it with the `Verifier`.
```

This capability can be paired with Zero-Knowledge Proofs to prove properties of the redacted data without revealing the data itself.

### ③ Data Verification

The `Verifier` now validates the proof received from the `Prover`. The data origin can be verified by inspecting the `Server` certificate through trusted certificate authorities (CAs). The `Verifier` can now make assertions about the non-redacted content of the transcript.

## TLS verification with a general-purpose Notary

> Since the validation of the TLS traffic neither reveals anything about the plain text of the TLS session nor about the `Server`, it is possible to outsource the MPC-TLS verification to a general-purpose TLS verifier ①, which we term a `Notary`. This `Notary` can sign (aka *notarize*) ② the data, making it portable. The `Prover` can then take this signed data and selectively disclose ③ sections to an application-specific verifier, which then verifies the data ④.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the validation of the TLS traffic neither reveals anything about the plaintext of the TLS session nor about the `Server`, it is possible to outsource the MPC-TLS verification to a general-purpose TLS verifier ①, which we term a `Notary`. This `Notary` can sign (aka *notarize*) ② the data, making it portable. The `Prover` can then take this signed data and selectively disclose ③ sections to an application-specific verifier, who then verifies the data ④.
```

![](./png-diagrams/overview3.png)

In this setup, the `Notary` cryptographically signs commitments to the data and the server's identity. The `Prover` can store this signed data, redact it, and share it with any data `Verifier` as they see fit, making the signed data both reusable and portable.

> Data verifiers will only accept the signed data if they deem the `Notary` trustworthy. A verifier can also require signed data from multiple Notaries to rule out collusion between the `Prover` and a `Notary`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Data `Verifiers` will only accept the signed data if they trust the `Notary`. A `Verifier` can also require signed data from multiple `Notaries` to rule out collusion between the `Prover` and a `Notary`.
```

Reviewer: I did not use back ticks here because this is about a different Verifier than earlier in the text: it only verifies the data, not the TLS transcript.

Maybe we have to come up with clearer names, to avoid confusion here.

Author: Maybe it makes sense to introduce the term `Data Verifier` in this section and use the back ticks accordingly?

Reviewer: 04abaf5defa9b00a4aaa3de15b88329d184d50df

Reviewer 2: ok, makes sense not use ticks around verifier here.
